# Source:Jeff Kaufmann, URL:https://www.jefftk.com/news.rss, language:en-US

## AI Intermediation
 - [https://www.jefftk.com/p/ai-intermediation](https://www.jefftk.com/p/ai-intermediation)
 - RSS feed: https://www.jefftk.com/news.rss
 - date published: 2023-07-05T08:00:00+00:00

<p><span>

Why is Google such a valuable company?  More than half of its money
comes from search ads: when people are looking to spend money it's
very common that they use Google. Even slightly influencing spending
decisions, with the scale of their userbase, lets them bring in
massive amounts of money.  They are a very successful intermediary.

</span>

<p>

Right now I bet there are dozens of startups trying to figure out how
they can build AI assistants to be even better intermediaries.  The
business plan looks something like:

</p>

<p>



</p>

<ul>

<li><p>Find some area where you can put in a bit of work and get an AI
assistant that is seriously useful to some group of people.  So useful
that they love it and get their friends to start using it.  Maybe you
start with people trying to buy houses who get a ton of mostly useless
emails with new listings but also the occasional gem.  It doesn't
matter whether there's a commercial tie-in at this stage, you just
want to be great.

</p></li>
<li><p>Keep expanding the areas your AI assistant is useful in.
Talk to your most enthusiastic users, find related areas you can save
time and hassle, grow, grow, grow.

</p></li>
<li><p>Some of these areas will have natural commercial applications;
make deals where you send them a bunch of traffic in exchange for a
small discount, and keep part of the discount.  Disclose this to your
users so the FTC doesn't get mad at you!

</p></li>
<li><p>Stay focused and execute better than your competitors.  It's a
crowded space, but also one with a lot of potential.

</p></li>
<li><p>Eventually you have a large number of people where you're
buying things on their behalf and exercising substantial discretion in
doing so.  They're happy with your purchases, and your position as a
trusted intermediary lets you bring in a ton of money.

</p></li>
</ul>



<p>

I haven't yet met an AI assistant I'd trust to act on my behalf, and
prompt injection is pretty concerning.  But as companies figure out
scalable oversight and improve reliability I expect we'll get there.

</p>

<p>

(Prompted by helping a friend think through a business plan for a
startup, though with how crowded the space is they weren't able to get
funding and decided to do something else.)

  </p>

