# Source:Jeff Kaufmann, URL:https://www.jefftk.com/news.rss, language:en-US

## Two Axes of Contra Bands
 - [https://www.jefftk.com/p/two-axes-of-contra-bands](https://www.jefftk.com/p/two-axes-of-contra-bands)
 - RSS feed: https://www.jefftk.com/news.rss
 - date published: 2023-05-19 08:00:00+00:00

<p><span>

In a conversation a few days ago I was thinking about how I mentally
categorize contra dance bands, and I think I have two main axes:

</span>

<ul>

<li><p>How serious?  Towards the less serious end you might see a band
go into a squared up pop tune, suddenly start playing kazoos, or
generally goof around.  Towards the more serious end you have
respectable bands that don't draw on tricks or novelty for their
appeal.

</p></li>
<li><p>How traditional?  Specifically, how close is their music to
what has traditionally been played for contra dances?  A more
traditional band might play fiddle tunes from New England, Quebecois,
Cape Breton, or other similar traditions, backed up with guitar or
piano.  A less traditional one might play klezmer, swing, rock,
reggae, or EDM.

</p></li>
</ul>



<p>

I made a chart:

</p>

<p>

<a href="https://www.jefftk.com/contra-bands"><img class="mobile-fullwidth" height="334" src="https://www.jefftk.com/contra-dance-bands-two-axes.png" width="550" /><div class="image-vertical-spacer"></div></a>

</p>

<p>

Click through for a version with names on hover and links to the
bands: <a href="https://www.jefftk.com/contra-bands">interactive</a>.

</p>

<p>

These aren't the only axes; I also care a lot about how well a band
succeeds at what they're going for, whether I like what they're going
for, and how well the band adjusts their playing to support the
dancing.  But these are either awkward to graph (I'm not going to tell
you how I'd order all contra dance bands from best to worst) or I
don't have a good sense for a lot of bands (some of these I don't have
strong memories of dancing to).

</p>

<p>

Some of the placements are debatable, and I haven't thought that long
about these; feel free to try to convince me to move things around!

</p>

<p>

(The top right corner is a bit messy, with several bands that are both
pretty serious and pretty traditional.  Ordering there isn't
especially meaningful, and is mostly so they're not too stacked on top
of each other.)

  </p>

<p><i>Comment via: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/jefftk/posts/pfbid02ucheBRn1qwWz6FP84HXRRAcAzcfzF4XkWPYvoPhE9NhWrYzZU52v72ugadzjWiX5l">facebook</a>, <a href="https://lesswrong.com/posts/a3qC2QFRo23KMFezr">lesswrong</a>, <a href="https://mastodon.mit.edu/@jefftk/110395790113014745">mastodon</a></i></p>

